Hello again you glorious go to people in this video.
We're going to start work on making the gods move.
We're gonna look at our options for navigation as a couple of different ways we can solve this but we're
going to be using the navigation to denote you'll notice once again this is a two parter because this
is quite a big topic.
So in this video we're gonna set everything up in the next one.
We'll start scripting it.
OK.
So if we're gonna be moving these guys let's define what kind of behavior we want.
When I'm think of God movement I'm thinking that's a random list of destinations.
I don't really want to type them as a list so I'm going to place them with little visual markers that
we can see an engine that the play is not going to see and the God is just going to pick one of these
randomly and move to them.
I also think while we have defined a normal speed I want human gods to move about half the speed the
plow want you to feel like you're sprinting.
This would give us the option later to do things like add faster gods or attack dogs or whatever when
they arrive at this point.
They're gonna wait for three seconds and then they're going to start the whole thing over again to pick
a new destination and move the now.
If the guard gets stopped canopies of scenery or Ley told me at furniture they shouldn't worry about
it they should just detect I'm touching something I'm going to go somewhere else.
OK so that's what we're looking at.
And we have two basic techniques we can use we can use a navigation instance polygon or a tile map and
I'll talk about these things on and I'll show you both but we're going to end up using Tom map out to
use either of these.
They have to be a direct child or a grandchild of a navigation to denote which is going to cause me
problems in a little bit and we'll show you how to fix that too.
Now don't worry if you don't memorize all these things.
I just wanted to give you that little bit of heads up now so that when we start doing it you'll think
oh right that's what he meant.
Okay.
So what's the navigation polygon instance.
No navigation instance polygon I'm not even reading my own slide am I.
What is it.
Well you're going to draw a shape on the map right.
Just like we did with collision shapes collision polygon.
It has to be one single shape.
Right.
I can't have a blob on the left hand side of the screen in the blob on the right hand side screen and
not having connecting and expect the NPC has to move from one to the other.
And we can edit this pretty easily an engine we can grab all these points and drag it around just like
we did with collision polygons.
If we do this entire map what we're gonna do is we're gonna go into the auto tile and we're going to
specify just like we do with occlusion what parts can have a navigation on them.
Now these navigation shapes have to align perfectly at the edge of each tile.
They can't go over the edge and they can't miss it.
It has to be pixel perfect.
If there is a 1 pixel gap or overlap the navigation just won't work.
Now one advantage of using a tile map that we're not going to be exploring this game is you could in
theory have your time map edited at runtime.
You could have a level editor that the player can use in game.
You could have dynamic events like an earthquake or give the player a drill that gets rid of walls and
it can instantly put in the navigation there.
So that's a nice little trick.
Okay.
Little bit more theory and I'll get into it.
Let's say that this is a level.
This is actually the layout I had in the previous version when we did this in 3.0.
And let's say we're gonna move this garden left in the circle to the diamond on the right.
Okay.
So you just pick that point.
Now what's going to happen is gotto is going to say okay what's the shortest way of getting there.
So I know I can't hit walls I can only go with these floors.
Let's draw a series of line and is going to take the position of each line and number them zero one
two three.
Why zero.
Because we always count from zero.
And these are gonna be added as vector twos in an array.
So quick recap navigation to denote is going to use a navigation polygon instance or a tile map.
And it has to have the navigation installed of using a tile map.
It's going to create a path using a function called get simple path.
We'll look at the next video and that path is gonna be an array of vector 2s.
Okay.
So it's just a simple coordinate system.
And what we're going to tell the script to do is start moving towards point zero when you're close enough
just get to the next point the list when you've run out of points.
Start the process again.
Okay that's a lot of talking.
Let's actually get into it.
First thing I need to do is make a navigation to denote.
So let's just go navigation Judy.
There it is.
Okay.
Our navigation must be a child of this.
Now let's say we gonna start with navigation polygon navigation polygon instance and it's going to tell
us little error right here.
You don't have one.
Okay let's make one we make a brand new nav poly new navigation polygon and we're ready to go and add
some points and I can tell snapping on if I want a quick and dirty now.
Collision is on so I can have my navigation go through the wall if the Guard is trying to get right
here with my mouses it won't work right.
So I can very quickly just make a little outline.
This would be a lot easier if I was
using SNAP but quick and dirty method I'm not gonna do the whole map was gonna give you a quick demonstration
Lulu.
Lulu correct.
And I've closed it and it's nice and green.
It's valid.
I can now go to edits this blue one and I can drag the ones that don't like and you can see they're
all numbered.
I can even do this in a script if I wanted.
Now they're awesome walls here.
We don't want the NPC to get stuck on the walls so let's add them right.
Go click like so.
And just add these walls.
Nice and easy.
And now that's part of the map too right.
And do the same thing again.
Be careful you know drag it like I just did.
Okay I should've done this with SNAP but you get the idea right.
Here is something nice and easy.
Now what happens if I decide you know what.
I'm just gonna go into my Tom up and get rid of that section of wall.
Now there's a gap and that becomes really annoying.
Right.
This is a lot less versatile so now I have to start tweaking things manually making sure I haven't missed
them.
So I don't really want to use a navigation polygons.
Only get rid of that.
Instead we're going to use a tile map so I can drag this up to here so I can have my time map at the
beginning and in fact I'm not going to do that because I should be doing this in templates.
Let's just delete you and go into template which is levels template level.
Great.
I'm going to add in our navigation to Dee.
There it is.
Put it right on top.
Don't do anything yet.
What I want to do.
And please don't do this yet because there is a bug.
Well I want to do is take tile map and put it as a child of navigation to.
Because otherwise no navigation information will go from time app to navigation 2D.
But if I do this things will go wrong.
And to demonstrate will go wrong I've actually got another version of gotto right here and I'm gonna
make a navigation to denote.
There it is and put at the top.
And just to show that it's exactly the same right here's the level you can see that it's not the same
one.
He's the one they're erased.
He's the one that's new or old.
He's the backup.
You know what I mean.
He's a backup if I drag this to here and save it.
We lose all of the tile map changes which is really annoying.
Now it might not be the end of the world.
We haven't done much yet.
And if you're happy with that that's fine go from that.
But if you want to keep your level information we need a workaround.
So let's get back into the current version of gutter.
That's the right one.
Good and one would do then to go into my template what I'm to do is I'm a duplicate the existing top
map conical Tom up to doing that means I don't have to recreate the time map we have.
And we'll take Tom up to and drag it to navigation to be cool.
Let's rename that because I want to be called Tom up to and save it.
Now when I look at the level I still got it because the original tile map is still here.
So now what I need to do is go to this tile map.
Let's just.
There we go trace over the original.
It's a little bit fiddly it doesn't really matter if we don't get it perfect but I can just hide the
original and see when I've drawn and some have traced the walls first I might miss a few.
La la la la la la la.
Might keep some of these details actually kind of nice.
Right click to get rid of these bits and zoom zoom zoom.
I should be fast forwarding this but I kind of want you guys to see the process.
It's not as bad as it sounds but we haven't done too much of a level yet.
OK so now if I hide the original tile map I can see what's missing it looks like I have all the walls.
Great.
Let's go to pink fill and just put the floors in.
You know what this height here is.
And I mean painful bucket fill.
There we go.
Boop boop awesome back to painful just in case I do think silly and that's looking good now.
Save that.
Go back to my template level and delete the original tile map.
That is not part of navigation today.
This whole thing is a work workaround because of a bug as far as I'm aware the time up information should
have been kept.
But we're doing something a little unusual so it's a nice workaround.
Great.
With that old in place let's actually ask some navigation so to do that I'm going to edit the tile set
so it's all set.
Let's go back to giant full screen click on that.
And the only ones we really care about of these floor tiles.
Right.
So let's click on the floor tiles and we're going to add in navigation.
And if I do the full square just like we do with collision I just need to do these.
So it's really not that bad
select click square select select click square select and now the navigation setup wherever there is
a floor.
This will happen now at some point we're going to be adding furniture and you'll see as a bunch of furniture
here.
If we put furniture in as a top map will lose the floor and said look bad.
So we'll have a little work around later on which basically involve having a second time up just a furniture
over it.
But that's pretty good.
Now we have navigation navigation 2D not complaining Tom it is good to go.
We can save it.
All right.
One more thing want to do.
I want to add some destinations.
So to do this I won't make it a child navigation to the again.
So back into my template and let's add a new node control a or just press the plus button and just a
basic node and uncle this destinations or rename not repair it.
So rename destinations boop.
And in this I'm going to use a node could put position 2D.
So I'm going to go to my navigation node add in a position to denote generic 2D position hint for editing.
This is something that only exists in the editor.
I mean it's in the game but no one can see it and it's just this thing here and I can move it around
so like move that's just a little crosshair I zoom out it's still there.
So it's just there for us as level editors as game editors to see if you can use these things for all
kinds of fun stuff pivot points or the rest of it but this is any destination.
So let's rename this to destination destination.
Zero.
Great.
And I would duplicate it.
There is one.
So I'm going to add a few randomly.
And now we're set up.
We can make this as big as we want as small as we want.
We have lots and lots of little places.
I don't want to put the God in the would you call it style room.
Let's put one here and another there and that's looking pretty solid.
And that's really all there is to it.
Now quick challenge.
It's not really a challenge.
It's just do what I just did but make your own level create your navigation 2D.
Don't be afraid to tweak the level make it is also more as simple as you like and adding a bunch of
destinations.
How many entirely up to you.
But there should be more destinations on your level than there are gods or you can get some weird behavior.
So pause the video do that.
And when you come back we can wrap up the video
walk back in this video we've looked at how to set up a navigation to any node and we've looked at both
navigation instance polygons or using the timeout features.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.